# Automated WMH Bullseye Parcellation
White matter hyperintensities (WMH) are one of the core pathognomonic correlates of cerebral small vessel disease visible in brain MRI. Here we provide a T1w brain MRI atlas and software for parcellating a given WMH segmentation into 36 anatomical regions of interest (ROI) following the previously established bullseye parcellation of WMH \cite{sudre2018bullseye} (which effectively captures all visual rating scales for WMH). This technique first divides white matter into 4 equidistant concentric layers extending from the ventricles to the cortex. Secondly, frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes are delineated for both hemispheres of the brain, while the basal ganglia, thalami and inter-lobe regions are combined (known as the BGIT region). We provide a brain atlas template for obtaining the lobar segmentation via registration, along with software to construct the concertric layers using output from the SynthSeg\cite{billot2023synthseg} tool. This tool allows for a rapid and robust registration based parcellation. We do not provide a WMH segmentation tool here, instead our parcellation tool may be used in conjunction with any WMH segmentation algorithm, or for parcellating any other ROI into the same anatomical regions of interest. For the latest version of our pipeline, see \url{https://github.com/BenjaminPhi5/auto-wmh-bullseye-parc}.

## Dataset Description
We provide a z-score normalized copy of a 73 year old average brain template which should be used for registration to the subject image under study. To register to subject images that have not been z-score normalized, please download the original 73 year old template image from Edinburgh Datashare at \url{https://doi.org/10.7488/ds/1369}. We also provide a brain atlas for the lobe parcellation both with and without the BGIT region. We also provide the output of SynthSeg for the template image (although this is not required for the parcellation). All images are provided as NIFTI files. We provide code for computing the bullseye parcellation in subject image space. Finally, we provide csv files that provide the names of each ROI in the lobe atlas and final WMH parcellation. In section \ref{sect:instructions} we provide instructions for conducting the parcellation, while section \ref{sect:wmh_parc_details} provides an extended discussion of the automated bullseye parcellation. \textbf{Note:} our software presumes all images used for parcellation, including WMH segmentations, are provided in NIFTI format.
